project folder -> git init -> This means that put the project in Git. Used for initializing the Git Repository.

Repo - Git storage area.

we need to create the snapshot of the project. We can tell which part of project goes to Repo.

git add . ->Tell git to add all the files in current directory to git  repo. This is just sending a request, but files not yet placed.

git commit -> CReate a snapshot that are available in previous command and put them in repositroy.

git commit -m "Message Test" -> We can give message text for commit also while comitting.

git log -> To get the history of repository.

atom filename.extension -> will opne the file -> This is just command line code. 

git status -> To get the status of the project -> It shows the modified file in red.

One any file is updated then we need to commit only that particular file.

git add filename.extension.

after adding if we again give git status -> Then it will show modified file in green telling that it is ready to go into repository.

git commit -m "message"

git status -> again to get status

git log gives all the commit details.

git diff -> to get difference between 2 gits

we can get the difference using the id of 2 commits

git generates the ID for commits automatically. 

git diff few words of ID soruce destination ID few words

git checkout ID of the git commit. If we do this then git takes the files for that ID and puts in our project folder.

--Tracking project history--

branching

git branch -> for branching
git merge -> For merging

we can use checkout also to put files from master branch to other branches or vice versa.

--Making sense of GIT--

Git is Fast, smart,flexible and powerful, safe and secure.

Distributed version control

git clone Servername-> Copies(Clones) entires repository to personal system.

we can do any changes needed with the repository branch, commit and everything to personal system repo.

when ever needed we can ge the latest repo from server using git pull.

or push the repo to server using git push.

First pull the repo and merge the conflicts and the push to server.

--Downsides to use git--

Not ideal for binary files- > like audio and video files.
Not user friendly.

--Integrating GIT--

GIT HUB is a repository hosting service, set of project managment tools, a social network centred on coding, provides a specifi workflow as it is build on git.

The open source work flow--

Forking a project -> MEans getting remote clone to a git hub repository to git hub personal account rather than getting in personl system (clone).






