3 main stages of a file

committed - The file is saved in local repo

modified - The file is modified from local repo, from last committed version. Similar to work in progress

staged - Once all changes are done then file moves to staged state.Then finally comitting the file to move to local repo.

.git directory - repository - Taken from Git server and saved in local.

During check out the files will be moved from Repo to Working Directory.

Once work is done then moved to Staging Area(Index) before comitting.

Commit is only done for those files only in staging area.

PWD - Print Working Directory - Gives the current  folder path location.

cd for changing directory 

cd.. -> Takes one folder up - To go up one directory
cd name of folder - to go to that particualr directory
cd~ -> TO jump to home folder.

dir used to list files in the directory

copy con - > create a new file
mkdir - to create a new folder.

--Installing GIT--

https://git-scm.com/download/win -> gitbash will be downloaded which will give linux feel in windows.

After installing we can give git --version to get the version on git installed

next we need to use username and Email address.

GitConfig tool used to set these

git config --global user.name "username"
git config --global user.email "usermail"

Now all the file changes will be named with the username

ween we are in a particular project directory then we can give

git config user.name "username"
git config user.email "usermail"

in order to overwrite the global settings in that project alone.

gif config --list -> This command gets the list if all configurations available.

git config user.name -> to get only username.

In order to get git command details
man git -> gives all the commands that we can use.

Porceleain (High level git commands used day to day)
Plumbing (Low Level commands are not meant to be used manually in CMD.

To get to specific section use below:

git help config -> To get to the help section of git commands.

git help -> smaller list of commands that we will use most of the time.

--Initialize a new GIT Repo--

Go to the folder of the project
git init -> Initializes the git repo for that project.

.git folder is hidden by default

we can go to cd .git -> dir -> gives all files in .get

--Send the code to a code host--

First we need to create an account - with GITHUB.

--Push local Repo to Git Hub--

Readme file is quick way to read about the repository.

After creating a repo in GIt Hub then we need to set up how to push or pull requests. We need to set up https for that.

https://github.com/sainath2404/Git-Learning.git

echo "# Git-Learning-Files" >> README.md

git add . will add all the files in the current directory to the staging area

then in order to comit

git commit -m "Name req for commit"

Once all commits are over then we need link local repo with the one created in Git Hub.

git remote add origin url provided by git hub

the above code will connect git hub repo with our local repo so that we can push and pull changes between them.

git push -u origin master -> Used to push the git repo from local to origin for master branch

Then it wil ask for username.

